Company : Sol Infotech Pvt. Ltd.
Website : www.courtkutchehry.com
Printed For :
Date : 24/08/2025
State Vs Veerappan and Others
Court: Madras High Court
Date of Decision: March 24, 1980
Acts Referred: Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 (CrPC) — Section 255(1)
Madras Prohibition Act, 1937 — Section 4(1)(b)
Citation: (1980) LW(Cri) 187
Hon'ble Judges: Rataare Pandian, J; Paul, J; Natarajan, J
Bench: Full Bench
Advocate: P. Rajamanickam, P.P, for the Appellant; K. Doraiswami for Respts, Mr. M.S. Menon for Bar Association
and Mr. K.V. Sankaran for Advocates Association, for the Respondent
Judgement
Paul J.
1. These appeals which have been preferred by the State represented by the learned Public Prosecutor against the
orders of the learned Judicial
Second Class Magistrate of Namakkal acquitting the respondent-accused in each case of an offence punishable under
S. 4(1)(b) of the Tamil
Nadu Prohibition Act are before us, in as much as on a reference by one of us, before whom the appeals originally
came up for hearing, the matter
has been placed before this Full Bench since the matter involved a question of law of public importance, in regard to
which question of law there
have been divergent views of various High Courts.
2. Of the two questions which have been referred to this Full Bench, the first one, namely, whether under S. 255(1), Crl.
P.C., a Magistrate can
acquit the accused if the prosecution fails to apply for the issue of summons to any witness and does not produce the
witness for several hearings
and does not serve summons on the. witnesses despite having been granted sufficient opportunity to serve the
summons or to produce the
witnesses, is the one that directly arises for determination in these appeals. The second question which arises for
determination by us incidentally is
whether a Magistrate can acquit the accused under S. 245(1), Crl. P.C., if the prosecution does not apply for the issue
of summons to any of the
witnesses and does not produce the witness for several hearings and does not serve the summons on the witnesses
despite having been granted
sufficient opportunities to serve the summons on the witnesses or to produce the witnesses.