The word ''produced'' in Sub-s. (7) of S. 251(a) Crl. P. C. 1898 and analogous, to S. 242(3) cannot be given any
restricted meaning as to saddle
the prosecution '' with the entire responsibility of producing the evidence A duty also is cast upon the courts for
enforcing attendance of witnesses
by the process provided in the Crl. P.C. The courts are not therefore, absolutely powerless when the parties fail to
produce evidence relevant In a
case.
In State v. Mandkishore, A.I.R 1967 Raj. 228 it has been observed is follows (Head note)-; J.
The word ''produce'' in Sub-s. (7) Includes the bringing forward of the witnesses by the prosecution at its own instance
or through the process of
the Court whom it desires to examine at trial. Besides, in the administration of Criminal Justice a duty is cast upon the
court to arrive at the truth by
all lawful means though the primary responsibility of prosecuting cognizable offence is on the executive authorities.
We are in respectful agreement with the aforesaid observations of the Orissa and the Rajasthan High Courts. The
Rajasthan High Court went on to
point out that the Magistrate should not feel himself helpless in such situations and should exercise his inherent powers
under S. 540 to summon
such witnesses as he thinks necessary for the ends of justice. If the prosecution by its negligence or otherwise fails to
discharge its responsibility in
producing witnesses, it is incumbent on the court to examine such witnesses as it considers necessary in the ends of
justice.
8. S. 510, Crl. P.C. 1898, state as follows-
Any Court may at any stage of enquiry, trial o other proceeding under this Code summon any person as a witness or
examine any person in
attendance, though not summoned as a witness'' or recall and reexamine any person already examined and the court
shall summon and examine or
recall and examine any such person if his evidence appears to it essential to the just decision of the case.
The analogous and corresponding provision in the present Crl. P.C. is S. 311. Thus the court cannot absolve itself of its
responsibility to summon
and examine all witnesses whose evidence appears to it to be essential to a just decision of the case, merely because
the prosecution does not
produce such witnesses owing to its negligence or otherwise. It being clear that it is the duty of the Magistrate to issue
summons and secure the
presence of witnesses and examine them, when the prosecution seeks the court''s assistance by means of an
application, the Court is further
obliged in discharge of its duty to arrive at the truth by all lawful means in furtherance of the administration of criminal
justice the suo motu take all
steps to secure the presence of witnesses where evidence appears to it to be essential to a just decision of the case.
9. We shall now proceed to indicate the powers which the Magistrate could exercise and the steps he could take under
the Crl. P.C. in the matter