of its witnesses directing him to attend or produce any documents or other thing. In the present Code, there is such a
provision in S. 242(e) in
regard to the trial of warrant cases instituted on a police report and in S. 254(2) in regard to the trial of summons cases.
Therefore, the aforesaid
four decisions would no longer be good law.
18. In almost all the decisions in which it has been held that an acquittal of the accused on the ground that the
prosecution did not produce the
witnesses was improper, the courts have pointed out that the duty to summon the witnesses in the course of the trial is
that of the Magistrate or the
Court concerned, and that the entire responsibility of production of witnesses cannot be saddled on the prosecution and
a duty is also imposed
upon the Court for enforcing the attendance of witnesses by the processes provided in the Code and it is the duty of the
Court to issue coercive
processes if in spite of summons served on the witnesses, the witnesses do not appear before the Court and the
prosecution fails to produce the
witnesses as directed. We are in respectful agreement with that view in so far as it emphasizes the duty of the
Magistrate of the Court. In some of
those decisions it has been held that finding the accused not guilty implies that the Court has applied its mind to the
merits of the case after
recording evidence and then only has found him not guilty. (Vide State of Mysore v. Kalibuliah Ahmed Sheriff A.I. R.
1971 Mys. 60 and The
State of Gujarat Vs. Thakorbhai Sukhabhai and Others, State of Rajasthan v. Mukthiar Singh 1965 2 Cri.L.J. 885 State
of Mysore v. Somala
1972 M L J Crl. 476; K.K. Subbiyar v. Lakshmana Iyer, 1942 M.W.N.Crl.64 : 55 L.W. 232; State v. Nagappu 1971
Crl.L.J. 348. We are not
however able to subscribe to that view. No doubt, there is no specific provision in either the relevant sections of Chapter
XIX which deal with the
trial of warrant cases instituted by the Police report by Magistrates or Chapter XX relating to the trial of summons cases
instituted on police report,
for acquitting the accused on the ground that the prosecution had not produced its evidence. Nevertheless provisions
have been made in the
present Code, for summons to be issued to the witnesses on the application of the prosecution and a duty is also cast
on the prosecution to
produce all its evidence. Thus there is a duty cast on an application by the prosecution to issue summons to the
witnesses and secure the presence
of witnesses by exercising all the powers conferred on it by the Code for that purpose and duty is also cast on the
prosecution to produce all its
evidence and to seek the assistance of the Court for so doing by applying to the Court for the issue of summons to the
witnesses. Therefore, in our
view, an acquittal of the accused merely on the ground that the prosecution had not produced the witnesses would not
be proper if the Court had