20
mixture of narcotic drugs or psychotropic substance is
more dangerous. Therefore, what is harmful or injurious
is the entire mixture/tablets with neutral substance and
Narcotic Drugs or Psychotropic Substances. Therefore,
if it is accepted that it is only the actual content by
weight of offending drug which is relevant for the
purpose of determining whether it would constitute
small quantity or commercial quantity , in that case , the
object and purpose of enactment of NDPS Act would be
frustrated. There may be few punishment for
“commercial quantity”. Certainly that would not have
been the intention of the legislature.
10.4. Even considering the definition of
“manufacture”, “manufactured drug” and the
“preparation” conjointly, the total weight of such
“manufactured drug” or “preparation”, including the
neutral material is required to be considered while
determining small quantity or commercial quantity. If it
is interpreted in such a manner, then and then only, the
objects and purpose of NDPS Act would be achieved.
Any other intention to defeat the object and purpose of
enactment of NDPS Act viz. to Act is deterrent.
10.5. The problem of drug addicts is international
and the mafia is working throughout the world. It is a
crime against the society and it has to be dealt with iron
hands. Use of drugs by the young people in India has
increased. The drugs are being used for weakening of
the nation. During the British regime control was kept
on the traffic of dangerous drugs by enforcing the
Opium Act, 1857. The Opium Act, 1875 and the Dangerous
Drugs Act, 1930. However, with the passage of time
and the development in the field of illicit drug traffic and
during abuse at national and international level, many
deficiencies in the existing laws have come to notice.
Therefore, in order to remove such deficiencies and
difficulties, there was urgent need for the enactment of
a comprehensive legislation on Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances, which led to enactment of
NDPS Act. As observed herein above, the Act is a special
law and has a laudable purpose to serve and is
intended to combat the menace otherwise bent upon
destroying the public health and national health. The
guilty must be in and the innocent ones must be out.