18
legislative intent. Otherwise, a bare mechanical
interpretation of the words and application of the
legislative intent devoid of concept of purpose and
object will render the legislature inane. It is further
observed that in given circumstances, it is permissible
for courts to have functional approaches and look into
the legislative intention and sometimes it may be even
necessary to go behind the words and enactment and
take other factors into consideration to give effect to the
legislative intention and to the purpose and spirit of the
enactment so that no absurdity or practical
inconvenience may result and the legislative exercise
and its scope and object may not become futile.
10.2 Therefore, considering the statement of
objects and reasons and the preamble of the NDPS Act
and the relevant provisions of the NDPS Act, it seems
that it was never the intention of the legislature to
exclude the quantity of neutral substance and to
consider only the actual content by weight of offending
drug which is relevant for the purpose of determining
whether it would constitute small quantity or commercial
quantity. Right from sub-clause (viia) and (xxiiia) of
Section 2 of NDPS Act emphasis is on Narcotic and
Drug or Psychotropic Substance (Sections 21, 22, 23,
24, 27 and 43). Even in the table attached to the
Notification dated 19.10.2001, column no. 2 is with
respect to name of Narcotic Drug and Psychotropic
Substance and column nos. 5 and 6 are with respect to
“small quantity and commercial quantity”. Note 2 of the
Notification dated 19.10.2001 specifically provides that
quantity shown against the respective drugs listed in
the table also apply to the preparations of the drug and
the preparations of substances of note 1. As per Note 1,
the small quantity and commercial quantity given
against the respective drugs listed in the table apply to
isomers ..., whenever existence of such substance is
possible. Therefore, for the determination of “small
quantity or the commercial quantity” with respect to
Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance mentioned
in column no.2 the quantity mentioned in the clauses 5
and 6 are required to be taken into consideration.
However, in the case of mixture of the narcotic drugs /
psychotropic drugs mentioned in column no.2 and any
mixture or preparation that of with or without the neutral