19
material of any of the drugs mentioned in table, lesser
of the small quantity between the quantities given
against the respective Narcotic Drugs or Psychotropic
Substances forming part of mixture and lesser of
commercial quantity between the quantities given
against the respective narcotic drugs or psychotropic
substance forming part of the mixture is to be taken into
consideration. As per example, mixture of 100 gm is
seized and the mixture is consisting of two different
Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance with
neutral material, one drug is heroin and another is
methadone, lesser of commercial quantity between the
quantities given against the aforesaid two respective
Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance is required
to be considered. For the purpose of determination of
the “small quantity or commercial quantity”, in case of
entry 239 the entire weight of the mixture / drug by
whatever named called weight of neutral material is
also required to be considered subject to what is stated
hereinabove. If the view taken by this Court in the case
of E. Micheal Raj (Supra) is accepted , in that case , it
would be adding something to the relevant provisions of
the statute which is not there and/or it was never
intended by the legislature.
8.3 At this stage, it is required to be noted that illicit
drugs are seldom sold in a pure form. They are almost
always adulterated or cut with other substance.
Caffeine is mixed with heroin, it causes that heroin to
vaporize at a lower rate. That could allow users to take
the drug faster and get a big punch sooner. Aspirin,
crushed tablets, they could have enough powder to
amend reversal doses of drugs. Take example of
heroin. It is known as powerful and illegal street drug
and opiate derived from morphine. This drug can easily
be “cut” with a variety of different substances. This
means that drug dealer will add other drugs or non -
intoxicating substances to the drug so that they can sell
more of it at a lesser expense to themselves. Brown-
sugar / smack is usually made available in power form.
The substances is only about 20% heroin. The heroin is
mixed with other substances like chalk powder, zinc
oxide, because of these, impurities in the drug, brown-
sugar is cheaper but more dangerous. These are only
few examples to show and demonstrate that even