364 LORD HODSON'—Veerappenv. Attorney-General
Section 453
A person is said to make a false document:
Firstly who dishonestly or fraudulently makes, signs, seals, or
executes a document or part of a document, or makes any mark
denoting the execution of a document, with the intention of causing
it to bo believed that such document or part of a document was
made, signed, sealed, or executed, by or by tho authority of a
person by whom or by whose authority he knows that it was not
made, signed, sealed, or executed, or at a time at which he knows
that it was not made, signed, sealed, or executed ..: ”
The appellant by his counsel did not argue before their Lordships
that the conclusion of the Supreme Court as to the forgery was not
sustainable but relied upon other matters as substantial grounds for
setting aside the judgment of the Sujweme Court.
First he relied on the defence of “ autrefois acquit". This defence
was raised before the Magistrate on 7th May 1968 by counsel who tendered
in evidence the Charge Sheet and Record of Discharge in Joint Magistrate’s
Court Colombo, Case No. 29950, 28th October 1963 to 24th February
1965. The Charge Sheet reads as follows :
“ Accused Palanimalay Veerappan.
1. That between the 2nd day of July, 195S and the 22nd day of
September, 1959 at Colombo within the jurisdiction of this Court,
you did by submitting Birth Certificate bearing No. 41904 issued
by the District Registrar of Births, Badulla with your application for
a certificate of Citizenship in terms of Section 6 of the Citizenship
Act (Chapter 349 L.E.C.) attempt to deceive the Hon. S. W. R. D.
Bandaranayake, Minister of Defence and External Affairs into the
belief that the said Birth Certificate which referred to the birth of
Veerappan S/O Tiruman born at Sherwood, Haputale on 1st May,
1918, referred to your birth, and thereby fraudulently attempted to
induce the said Hon. S. W. R. D. Bandaranayake to issue you with
a certificate of Citizenship in terms of Section 6 of the Citizenship
Act (Chapter 349 L.E.C.) which act he would not have done had he
not been so deceived, and whioh act was likely to cause loss or damago
to the Government and you have thereby committed an.offence"
punishablo under Section 400 read with Section 490 of the Penal
Code.
2. That at the time and place aforesaid and in the course of tho
same transaction you did for the purpose of procuring a certificate
■f Citizenship issued in terms of Section 6 of the Citizenship Act
(Chapter 349 L.E.C.) make a statement to w it: that you were
Veerappan S/O Tiruman born at Sherwood Estate, Haputale Ceylon
on 1st May, 191S, knowing such statement to be false in a matorial
particular to wit, that, you were Veerappan S/O Tiruman a Citizen
of Ceylon by descent and you are thereby guilty of an offence punishable
• under section 25 of the Citizenship Aot.”