3. In all these appeals, the learned Magistrate acquitted the accused under S. 255(I), Crl. P.C., on the ground that even
though the cases had been
posted for hearing on various dates and summons had been issued to the witnesses for all the hearings, the witnesses
were not produced on any of
the hearing dates and in spite of a notice issued that the case would be disposed of without examining the witnesses if
they are not produced the
prosecution did not choose to let in any evidence and as such the Magistrate found that the prosecution had no
evidence to let in.
4. S. 81, Crl. P.C. 1861, (sic) the Magistrate to issue a warrant. We shall first examine the provisions of the Crl. P.C. of
1973, which have
relevance to this matter. S. 255(1), Crl. P.C. under which the accused have been acquitted in these cases states as
follows-
If the Magistrate, upon taking the evidence referred to in S. 254 and such further evidence, if any, as he may, of his own
motion, cause to be
produced, finds the accused not guilty, he shall record an order of acquittal.
S. 254, Crl. P.C. states as follows-
(1) If the Magistrate does not convict the accused under S. 255 or S. 253, the Magistrate shall proceed to hear the
prosecution and take all such
evidence as may be produced in support of the prosecution, and also to hear the accused and take all such evidence
as he produces in his defence.
(2) The Magistrate may; if he thinks fit, on the application of the prosecution or the accused issue a summons to any
witness directing him to attend
or to produce any document or other thing.
(3) The Magistrate may, before summoning any witness on such application, require that the reasonable expenses of
the witness incurred in
attending for the purposes of the trial be deposited In Court.
It will be noticed that under Sub-s. (1) of S. 254, the Magistrate is enjoined to hear the prosecution and take all such
evidence as may be
produced in support of prosecution and also to hear the accused and take all such evidence as he produces in hit
defence, It was to be noted that
under that sub-section a duty is cast on the prosecution to produce its evidence and likewise on the accused to produce
evidence in his defence.
Sub-S. (2) of S. 254 makes provision for the prosecution of the accused to seek the assistance of the Court in
producing its or his evidence by
applying for issue of summons to any witness directing him to attend or to produce any document or other thing. It may
also be noted that this sub-
section gives a discretion to the Magistrate to so issue summons on the application of the prosecution or the accused
by using the words ''the
Magistrate may, if he thinks fit. Thus an emphasis is placed by S. 254 on the duty of the prosecution or the accused to
produce all evidence in