. 362 LORD HODSON—Veerappen v. Attorney-General
October 6, 1969. [Delivered by Lord Hodson]—
The appellant was convicted in the Supreme Court of Ceylon on 27th
February 1967 and sentenced to a term of two years rigorous
imprisonment on a charge of forgery punishable under section 454 of the
Penal Code which provides for a maximum period of five years
imprisonment to be imposed.
He was granted special leave to appeal by Order of Her Majesty in
Council on 13th November 1967.
He had been charged on 10th March I960 in the Magistrate’s Coiirt of
Bandarawela “ that on 26th August 195S he did sign a document to
w it:
‘ Application for a certificate of citizenship by descent, to be issued
by the Minister of Defence and External Affairs in terms of Section 6
of the Citizenship Act (Cap. 349) with the intention of causing it to be
believed that the said document was signed by Veerappen son of
• Thiruman, (who was born to Thiruinan and Lee homey on Sherwood
Estate on 1st May, 1918, and in respect of whose birth the Birth
Certificate No. 41904 had been issued by the District Registrar of
BaduIIa on 12.C.5S) by whom or by whose authority he knew that
the said document was not signed, and he lias thereby committed an
offence punishable under Section 454 of the Penal Code.’ ”
The offence with which lie was charged is not ordinarily triable
summarily by a Magistrate’s Court but the Magistrate, being also an
additional District Judge, assumed jurisdiction on the grounds (1) that
the facts were simple (2) expeditious disposal was desirable for-the offence
was alleged to have been committed in 105S and (3) no complicated
points of law arose. Though entitled to assume jurisdiction under section
152 (3) of the Criminal Procedure Code the Magistrate had no power to
impose any sentence but one which a District Court might lawfully
impose. The punishment which he could have imposed if he had found
the appellant- guilty was therefore limited to two years imprisonment as
opposed to the maximum of five years laid down in section 454 of the
Penal Code.
.The appellant pleaded " not guilty ”, was not called as a witness nor did
he ofFer other evidence save that he put in a document to which reference
will be made hereafter. He was acquitted on the ground that, on the
facts proved by the prosecution, the charge of forgery had not been
established, his offence, if any, being that of cheating.
Upon appeal by the Attorney-General to the Supreme Court against
the acquittal the Court held that upon the facts found by the Magistrate
forgery within the meaning of section 453 of the Pena! Code had been
made put.
The appellant was an Indian Tamil resident in Ceylon. He.had been a
watcher on aii estate in Haputale. In July 195S he wrote to the Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Defence and External Affairs, at Colombo asking