LOUD IIODSOX—Vecrappcn v. Attorney-General 3G3
tKit his position as a citizen of Ceylon by birth under section C of the
Cilizendiip Act. Xo. IS of 194S, should be clarified and also asking
fur an application form. He signed the letter in Tamil.
A form was sent and filled in by him ns “ THIRUMALAI alias
PALAXDIALAI VEERAPPEX ” . Xo jmint was made of the difference
between Thiruman and Thimnialai. The appellant did however state,
in answer to the questionnaire, that his father had been born in Ceylon
and tint he could produce documentary evidence of his own birth in
Ceylon, the point being that he would then qualify under section 4 of
the Citizenship Act as a citizen of Ceylon by descent. The appellant
.subsequently signed and sent to the Department a form of application
verified by affidavit in which he gave his date and place of birth as
1.5.191S Sherwood Estate, Haputalc and also gave his father’s date and
place of birth as 1S9S, Koslande, that is to say representing that he and
-his father.were born in Ceylon. The application was accompanied bjr a
birih certificate recording the birth of one “ Vcerapcn” the- son of
“ Tiruman ” on 1st May 191S at the Sherwood Estate. A certificate of
Citizenship was accordingly issued to the appellant stating his name and
place of birth as set out in his application.
The prosecution proved that the appellant was not the person to whom
the birth certificate related. They produced (1) a birth certificate of the
appellant’s grandson based on information supplied by the appellant
which showed that the appellant was not born in Ceylon, (2) a Provident
Fund record card filled in on information supplied by the appellant
showing that lie was born in South India, and (3) a Labour discharge
certificate of less significance.
The decision of the Magistrate was that by enclosing the false birth
certificate with his application form the appellant was seeking to pass
himself off as the “ Vecrappcn ” son of Tiruman who had the qualification
for citizenship of Ceylon by descent.
The Supreme Court, upon these facts, reversing the decision of the
Magistrate, held that a verdict convicting the appellant of forgery should
be recorded. Forgery is defined by the Penal Code sections 452 and 453
as follows :
“ Section 452
Whoever makes any false document or part of a document with
intent to cause damage or injury to the public or to any person, or
to the Government or to support any claim or title, or to cause any
person to part with property, or to enter into any express or implied
contract, or with intent to commit fraud, or that fraud may be
committed, commits forgery.