17
Reasons of NDPS Act is required to be considered. As
per the preamble of NDPS Act, 1985, it is an Act to
consolidate and amend the law relating to Narcotic
Drugs, to make stringent provisions for the control and
regulation of operation relating to Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances. To provide for forfeiture of
the property derived from or use in illicit traffic in
Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance. The
Statement of objects and reasons and the preamble of
the NDPS Act imply that the Act is required to act as a
deterrent and the provisions must be stringent enough
to ensure that the same Act as deterrents.
10.1. In the case of Directorate of Enforcement vs.
Deepak Mahajan and Another reported in (1994) 3 SCC
440, it is observed by this Court that every law is
designed to further ends of justice but not to frustrate
on the mere technicalities. It is further observed that
though the intention of the Court is only to expound the
law and not to legislate, nonetheless the legislature
cannot be asked to sit to resolve the difficulties in the
implementation of its intention and the spirit of the law.
It is the duty of the Court to mould or creatively interpret
the legislation by liberally interpreting the statute. In the
said decision this Court has also quoted following
passage in Maxwell on Interpretation of Statutes, 10th
Edition page 229:
"25. ….Where the language of a statute,
in its ordinary meaning and grammatical
construction, leads to a manifest contradiction
of the apparent purpose of the enactment, or
to some inconvenience or absurdity, hardship
or injustice, presumably not intended, a
construction may be put upon it which
modifies the meaning of the words, and even
the structure of the sentence. ... Where the
main object and intention of a statute are
clear, it must not be reduced to a nullity by the
draftsman's unskilfulness or ignorance of the
law, except in a case of necessity, or the
absolute intractability of the language used."
Thereafter, it is further observed that to winch up the
legislative intent, it is permissible for courts to take into
account the ostensible purpose and object and the real