Veerappen v. Attorney-General 361
[P r iv y C ouncil]
1969 Present: Lord Hodson, Viscount Diihorne
Lord Donovan, Lord Pearson and Lord Diplock
T. P. VEERAPPEN, Appellant, and THE
ATTORNEY-GENERAL, Respondent
P r iv y C ou n cil A ppe al No. 11 o f 1968
S. C. 1249/56—M. 0. Badulla (holden at Bandarawela), 44156
Criminal law—Charge of forgery—Penal Code, se. 452, 453, 454—Citizenship Act,
s. 6—Defence of autrefois acquit—Burden of proof—Whether accused should
he given an opportunity of calling evidence if the defence that prosecution
does not support the charge is not accepted—Sentence—Privy Council will not
generally interfere with it—Appeal against acquittal—Conviction thereafter—
Desirability of accused being heard—in-mitigation of sentence.
The defence of autrefois acquit cannot succeed if in the relevant earlier case
the accused was discharged because counsel for the prosecution stated that
the prosecution was not adducing any evidence against the accused and thero
is no indication that the accused was called upon to plead to the charge. In
such a case it cannot be said that the appellant was ever put in peril on the
first occasion.
Where, at the trial of a criminal case, Counsel for the accused states that
he is not calling any evidence but makes a submission in law to the effect that
the evidence for the prosecution does not support the charge, there is no
obligation on either the trial Court or the Supreme Court (on appeal from an
acquittal) to give a further opportunity to the accused of calling evidence if
the submission made on behalf of the accused is not accepted and the accused
is convicted.
The Judicial Committee of the Privy Council does not as a rule interfere
with sentences.
In appeals against acquittals it is highly desirable that accused persons
should have the opportunity, after conviction by an appellate court, of pleading
in mitigation of sentence,
A pPEAL, with special leave, from a judgment of the Supreme Court.
The appellant was convicted by the Supreme Court of forgery for
forging a birth certificate in connection with an application made by him
for a certificate of citizenship in terms of section 6 of the Citizenship
Act. In the appeal to the Privy Council the appellant by his counsel
did not argue that the conclusion of the Supreme Court as to the forgery
was not sustainable but relied inter alia upon the defence of autrefois
acquit for setting aside the judgment of the Supreme Court.
E. F. N. Gratiaen, Q.G., with John Baker, fgr the accused-appellant.
Montague Solomon, for the respondent,
Cur. adv. Dull
Lxxn—16
!•—~J no4S-2,:!5 (1/70)