13. High Court of M.P. Bench At Indore
MCRC No.26515/2018
Ranjan vs. The State of M.P.
&
MCRC Nos.46229/2018
Sandeep vs. The State of M.P.
(i) has violated any provision of these rules; or
(ii) has been convicted of any offence under the Act; or
(iii) has, in the opinion of the Controller of Drugs,
abused such possession or otherwise been rendered unfit
to possess such drug.
(b) When any order is passed under clause (a) of this sub-
rule, the registered medical practitioner concerned shall
forthwith deliver to the Controller of Drugs the essential
narcotic drug then in his possession and the Controller of
Drugs shall issue orders for the disposal of such drugs.
(6) The Controller of Drugs may, be a general or special
order, authorise any person to possess essential narcotic drug
as may be specified in that order.
(7) A recognized medical institution may possess essential
narcotic drug in such quantity and in such manner as specified
in these rules.
(8) A manufacturer may possess essential narcotic drug in
such quantity as may be specified in the licence issued under
rule 37 of these rules.
(9) A licenced dealer or a licenced chemist may possess
essential narcotic drug in such quantity an in such manner as
may be specified in the licence issued under these rules.
52B. Provisions regarding licenced dealer and licenced
chemist- (1) A licenced dealer or a licenced chemist shall
apply for a licence to possess, sell, exhibit or offer for sale or
distribution by retail or wholesale, essential narcotic drug, to
the authority competent to issue licence to possess, sell,
exhibit or offer for sale or distribution by retail or wholesale,
manufactured drugs under the rules framed under Section 10
of the Act by State Government of the State in which he has
his place of business.
(2) Every application for issue of licence referred to in sub-
rule (1) shall be in such form and manner as may by specified
by the authority referred to in the said sub-rule.
(3) The licence to possess, sell, exhibit or offer for sale or
distribution by retail or wholesale, essential narcotic drugs
shall have the same conditions as are applicable to a licence to
possess, sell exhibit or offer for sale or distribution by retail or
wholesale, manufactured drugs under the rules framed under
section 10 of the Act by the State Government.
(4) The licence under this rule shall be obtained within a
period of one hundred and eighty days from the date of
commencement of these rules.”
25. Thus, after May, 2015 licence to keep the composition