LORD HODSO>f— Veerappen v. Attorney-General 365
The Record of Discharge in this case shows that the accused was
present. Then follows the word "Evidence” and underneath appears
the following:
“ Jlr. Adv. Sittampalam instructed by Mr. Siva Subramaniam for
the accused.
^Ir. W. Paul C.C. for the prosecution states that the prosecution is
not adducing any evidence .against the accused in this case.
J discharge the accused.”
There is no indication that the appellant was called upon to plead to the
charge. This case can be contrasted with the procedure followed on the
trial with which this appeal is concerned; when the appellant on being
asked if he had any cause to show why he should not be convicted stated
“ I am not guilty ”.
The Magistrate rejected the plea of autrefois acquit on the ground
that the charge made under section 454 was not one of the charges'in
case No. 29950 but in their Lordships’ view it is unnecessary to consider
the question whether the substantial issues raised in the second
proceedings are the same as those raised in the first.
The Record does not showr that the appellant was ever put in peril
on the first occasion. It shows the reverse namely that counsel for the
prosecution stated that the prosecution was not adducing any evidence
against the accused in the ease whereupon he was discharged.
There is nothing to indicate that the apjiellant was ever called upon to
plead and a search of the Court journal has not shown any indication that
he w'as called upon. Tire burden being upon appellant to establish the
plea of autrefois acquit and there being no evidence to support it this
ground of appeal is not established.
A second point, taken somewhat tentatively on behalf of the appellant
was that when his Counsel stated that he was not calling any evidence
but made a submission in law to the effect that the evidence for the
prosecution could not support a charge of forgery, he was making a
submission of “ No case to answer ” ; and that if the Magistrate had
over-ruled that submission justice required that he should then have given
the appellant an opportunity of leading evidence. Further it was
submitted that the Supreme Court should not have set aside the verdict
of acquittal entered by the Magistrate without giving the same
opportunity to the appellant since the Supreme Court was in effect
doing no more than over-ruling a submission of “ No case to answer ” ,
There is no substance in this point. When the case for the prosecution
was closed on 8th July 1966 the Magistrate called on the appellant for
his defence. His Counsel then indicated that he w'as calling no evidence
and confined himself to tendering the Charge Sheet and the record of
the earlier proceedings. The appellant’s counsel in whose hands he was,
J**------J 11043 (1/70)