366 LORD HODSOK—Vee'rappen v. Attorney-General
indicated plainly that he was calling no evidence apart from the document
to which reference lias been made. In so lar as it can be inferred that
. Counsel submitted there was no case to answer that submission was not
over-ruled but was accepted and the Magistrate, upon the facts proved
before him came to the conclusion, afterwards reversed by the Supreme
Court, that the offence of forgery was not established.
The Supreme Court, upon those facts, the only facts which the
appellant had sought to put forward substituted a verdict convicting the
appollant of forgery for the verdict of acquittal which the Court set
aside.
No injustice was done to the appellant in that the Supreme Court did
not, before giving judgment, give him a further opportunity of calling
evidence.
Finally it was submitted that there was a grave irregularity in the
Supreme Court in that the Judgment in its final paragraph imposed a
sentence of two years rigorous imprisonment Avithout gi\'ing an .
opportunity for the appellant to be heard in mitigation of sentence in
.the event of a conviction being entered against him.
Their Lordships cannot uphold this objection. They vcill not as a
rule interfere.Avith sentences. Moreover on the face of it the sentence
is not in their Lordships’ opinion an excessive one.
It is recognised that, since the judgment ivas handed out by the Court
to the parties, there was no separate opportunity given to the appellant by
himself or his counsel to plead in mitigation. Nevertheless notice had
been given by the Petition of Appeal that the Attorney-General Avas
praying not only to have the order of acquittal made by the Magistrate
reversed but also that sentence might be passed on the appellant according
.to law.
It was therefore open to the appellant to deal at the hearing before the
Supreme Court Avith tho question of punishment. It is true that this is
a course which an appellant will not readily take Avhen the question of
conviction is still in suspense. Their Lordships do not regard with
satisfaction the practice, if such there bo, of dealing Avith sentences without
hearing a pica in mitigation.
Even though appeals against acquittals may be few in number they
regard it as highly desirable that accused persons in such cases should
have the opportunity after conviction by an appellate court of pleading
in mitigation.
For the reasons given above their Lordships Avill humbly advise Her
Majesty that the appeal should be dismissed.
Appeal dismissed.