not on an application by the prosecution discharged its duty of summoning and enforcing the attendance of witnesses.
We also notice that almost all
the decisions which have held such an acquittal is improper dealt with cases in which the Magistrate had not
discharged the aforesaid duty. We
would also like to refer to a few other decisions which have a bearing on this matter. The first one is the decision in
Public Prosecutor Samangi
Mudaliar 1565 1 L.R. Mad.416 : 77 L.W. 478 to which we had already made a reference. Ramakrishnan, J, held that in
warrant cases where the
Court had already framed a charge under S. 251-A Crl. P.C., against the accused an important duty was laid on it to
see that all the powers
available to the Court for the examination of witnesses were exercised for a just decision of the case irrespective of the
laces of the complainant.
Therefore, this Court had already emphasized the important duty laid on the Court to see that all the powers available
to the Court for the
examination of witnesses were exercised for just decision of the case. Likewise, in Paban Chandra Majumdar v. Dulal
Ghosh AIR IWCF 187 it
was held that the order of acquittal was unwarranted by law when in a case instituted on a police report the Magistrate
ordered summons to be
issued to the prosecution witnesses, but after certain adjournments without taking any step for procuring the attendance
of witnesses to whom
summonses were issued he proceeded further and after examining the accused who pleaded not guilty passed an
order of acquittal. In The State of
Bihar Vs. Polo Mistry and Others, it was observed by a single Judge of the Patna High Court as follows.
Where the prosecutor in a criminal trial has himself undertaken to produce the prosecution witnesses the entire
responsibility for the production of
the evidence in support of the prosecution case is that of the prosecutor. But when the prosecutor has taken recourse
to the agency of the Court
for securing the attendance of the prosecution witnesses it is undoubtedly the duty of Magistrate to take steps for
securing the attendance of the
prosecution witnesses in his Court. Where therefore, in the latter case, none of the prosecution witnesses turn up in
spite of the service of the
summons issued by the Court on them and there are no materials to indicate that there was any reasonable cause for
their failure to appear, the
proper course for the Magistrate is to take necessary steps to compel the attendance of the witnesses and it is wrong
on his part to proceed to
acquit the accused on the footing that there is no evidence against them.
19. It was further observed-
It is undoubtedly the duty of the Magistrate to take steps for securing the attendance of the prosecution witnesses in his
Court and it cannot be held