of securing the presence of witnesses, S. 62, Crl. P. C. reads as follows:--
(1) Every summons shall be served by a police officer or subject to such rules as the State Government may make in
this behalf, by an officer of
the court issuing it or other public servant.
S. 64 states ""Where the persons summoned cannot by the exercise of due diligence be found, the summons may be
served by leaving one of the
duplicates for him with some adult male member of his family residing with him and the person with whom the
summons is so left, shall, if so
required by the serving officer sign a receipt therefore on the back of the other duplicate,"" S. 65, Crl. P.C. states:-
If service cannot by the exercise of due diligence be effected as provided in S62, S. 63 or S. 64, the serving officer shall
affix one of the duplicates
of the summons to some conspicuous part of the house or homestead in which the person summoned ordinarily resides
and thereupon the court,
after making such enquiries as it thinks fit may either declare that the summons has been duly served or order fresh
service in such manner as it
considers proper.
S. 69 which makes provision for service of summons on witnesses by post reads as follows:-
(l) Notwithstanding anything contained in the preceding sections of this Chapter, a court issuing a summons to a
witness may, in addition to and
simultaneously with the issue of fresh summons direct a copy of the summons to be served by registered post
addressed to the witness at the place
where he ordinarily resides or carries on business or personally works for gain.
(2) Where an acknowledgment purporting to be signed by the witness or an endorsement purporting to be made by a
postal employee that the
witness refused to take delivery of the summons has been received the court issuing the summons may declare that
the summons has been duly
served.
This provision is a new one incorporated in the Crl. P.C. of 1973, and was not in the old Crl. P. C. This provision, in our
experience, has not been
resorted to by any Magistrate as far as we know. Of course, it is not practicable to adopt this procedure in every case,
for, it would result in heavy
expenditure to the State. Nevertheless, where summons issued has not been served on the witnesses by a police
officer under S. 62, repeatedly,
the Magistrate may resort to this provision of issuing the summons and sending it by registered post to the witness. Of
course, if after due service,
the witness does not appear before the Court, the Court should be coercive processes for securing the pretence of the
witness before the Court.
ID suitable cases, or in cases of chronic or persistent failure to appear in response to the summons, a complaint can be
laid under S. 174, I.P.C.