accused under S. 241, on his plea of guilt the Magistrate should fix a date for examination of the witnesses and the
Magistrate may on the
application of the prosecution issue summons to any of its witnesses directing him to attend or to produce any
document or other thing and on the
date so fixed the Magistrate shall proceed to take all such evidence as may be produced In support of the prosecution.
S. 243 states that the
accused shall then be called upon to enter up.-m his defence and produce his evidence, and if the accused puts in any
written statement, the
Magistrate shall file it with the record, and if the accused after he Has entered upon his defence, applies to the
Magistrate to issue any process for
compelling the attendance of any witness for the purpose of examination or cross-examination or the production of the
document or other things,
the Magistrate shall issue such process unless he considers that such application should be refused on the ground that
it is made for the purpose of
vexation or delay or for defeating the ends of justice and such grounds shall be recorded by him in writing. It might be
noted that as In S. 254, Crl.
P.C. relating to the trial of-summons cases, the Magistrate even in warrant cases instituted on a police reports enjoined
under Sub-s. (3) of S. 242
to take all such evidence as may be produced in support of the prosecution and a provision has been made in Sub-s.
(2) of S. 242, for the issue of
summons to any witness directing him to attend or produce any document or other thing on the application of the
prosecution. It may, however, be
noted that while under S. 254(2) the Magistrate '' may if he thinks if issue such summons, under S. 242, the Magistrate
''may'' issue, such summons
Apparently, the words ''if he thinks fit'' have been included in S. 254(2) in summons cases in order to give the
Magistrate the power to refuse to
issue such summons if he thinks it proper to do so. The words ''if he thinks fit'' in Sub-s. (2) of S. 254, further indicate
that the Magistrate has to
apply his mind when an application is made by the prosecution or the accused to issue such summons. Therefore, even
in regard to warrant cases
instituted on police report, a duty is cast on the Magistrate to take all evidence that may be produced by the prosecution
as well as a duty to
facilitate the production of evidence, by the prosecution, by issuing summons to witnesses on the application of the
prosecution, and likewise, a
duty has also been cast on the prosecution to produce all evidence in support of its case. Since both in S. 254(1) as
well as in S. 242(3), the
words ''as may be produced in support of the prosecution'' have been used it is necessary for us to examine the
connotation of the words ''as
maybe produced''.
7. In State of Orissa Vs. Sib Charan Singh, it has been observed as follows: (Head note):-