251(A)(7) of the Crl. P.C. 1898, the Magistrate was bound to examine all the witnesses mentioned in the police report
and issue process for their
appearance in case the prosecution fails to produce them and the learned Judge held that the duty of the Court is only
to take evidence which is
ready when the case is taken up for hearing and the Magistrate is not bound to go on adjourning the case until all the
witnesses mentioned in the
police report are examined.
14. In State v. Lakshmanan 1966 All. L.J. 342, it was held that when the witnesses were not present and did not appear
when called and there
was nobody on behalf of the prosecution although the Magistrate contacted the A.P.P. and also the Public Prosecutor
and no request was made to
the Court for any assistance to procure the attendance of the witnesses, it was held that the Magistrate could not be
said to have acted illegally if he
closed the case and acquitted the accused.
15. In Sri Jyothi Mayee Bose v. Birendranath Prodkan, AIR 1960 Cal 265 a Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court
observed that Sub-s. (6)
of S. 251(A), Crl. P.C., 1898, does not enjoin upon the Magistrate any duty to compel the attendance of any witness
unless it was applied for and
in a case tried under S. 251(A), Crl. P.C. the Magistrate is not compelled as he is, if the case is tried as a warrant case
instituted other than on a
police report, to proceed in terms of Ss. 256 and 257 of the Code.
16. In Slate v. Ramlal 1961 2 Crl L.J. 331 a single Judge of the Allahabad High Court observed as follows;-
S. 252, Crl. P.C. Imposes a duty upon the Magistrate to ascertain the names of the witnesses who can give evidence
on the relevant points and to
summon those witnesses in evidence. But, by providing an entirely new procedure, under S. 251(A) Crl. P.C. 1898 in
cases instituted by the
police, the Legislature has deliberately departed from that procedure and in the new procedure has made no provision
for summoning of the
prosecution witnesses. There is therefore no authority in law for the proposition that the Public Prosecutor can make an
application for summoning
of prosecution witnesses and in such a case the Magistrate is found to summon those witnesses.-The whole object of
the section appears to have
been that the police should be prepared to produce its witnesses when the case is called upon for hearing an d it
should not be permitted to take
shelter behind the absence of witnesses on account of want of summons by the is Court.
17. It may be noted that in the old Criminal Procedure Code before the amendment of) 973, of S. 251(A) which dealt
with the trial of warrant
cases instituted on police report there was no provision whereby the Magistrate on the application of the prosecution
could issue summons to any