Then again, the Explanation (2) in S. 309, Crl. P.C. also can be made use of in suitable cases by the Magistrate, for,''
that Explanation states ''the
terms on which an adjournment or postponement may be granted including in appropriate cases; the payment of costs
by the prosecution or
accused.'' We might also note here that no rules have been framed by the State Government under S. 62, Crl. P.C.
Therefore, (sic) as it is, there
appears to us to be no bar to the serving of summons by an officer of the court or other public servant.
10. The next question that would arise is whether if, even after having recourse to the above provisions, the Magistrate
is not able to secure the
presence of the witnesses and the prosecution on its part, even after having been given several opportunities, fails to
serve the summons on the
witnesses or to produce them, the Magistrate would be justified in acquitting the accused either under S. 255(1), Crl. P.
C. in summons cases or
under S. 248(1), Crl. P.C. in warrant cases?
11. In State of Madhya Pradesh v. Kalthawaix a Division Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court observed as
follows:-
It was the duty of the prosecution to make necessary arrangements for the production of its witnesses.... The Police
must always remember that it
has got a duty to the Court and they cannot just send a challan and think that the rest will be done by the Court. When
nobody appeared in the
Court to inform what the reason was for non-appearance of the witnesses; the Court could legitimately come to the
conclusion that the police was
not very serious in prosecuting the offence which was a minor one. Under S. 245. the Magistrate can record an order of
acquittal if there is no
evidence to hold the accused guilty. If the prosecution did not take proper steps to produce the witnesses, or ask the
Court to give them time to do
the same, or to issue fresh summons, the Court was not bound to fix another date. The police has a duty towards the
citizen. When the accused is.
brought before the Court and the prosecuting department does not take any steps it will be an abuse of the process of
the Court to continue the
trial. Bringing a person before the Court accusing him of some offence is a serious matter and however petty the
offence may be, the prosecuting
department, must do its duty towards the accused as well as the Court. When once the accused is challenged there is
no privilege given to the
police to remain absent.
In that case the accused was prosecuted under S. 34 of the Police Act. The case was to be tried according to the
procedure prescribed in the Crl.
P.C., 1898, for the trial of summons cases, that is, under S. 244, Crl. P.C., of 1898. The cases was posted to a
particular date for recording