support of its case or his defence:
5. S. 255(1) makes provision for the Magistrate upon taking the evidence referred to in S. 254 to take such further
evidence, if any, as he may of
his own motion cause to be produced. Under S. 255(1) a Magistrate can record an order of acquittal if he finds the
accused not guilty upon taking
the evidence learned to in S. 254 and such further evidence, if any, as he may, of his own motion, cause to be
produced. S. 244, Crl. P. C. of
1898 (corresponding to S. 254 of the Code of 1973), as it was in force before the Criminal Procedure Code of 1973
came Into effect also
contained similar provisions. S. 258, Crl, P. C, 1973, which is analogous to S. 249 of the Crl. P. C. of 1898, reads as
follows :-
In any summons case instituted otherwise than upon complaint, a Magistrate of the first class or, with the previous
sanction of the Chief Judicial
Magistrate, any other Judicial Magistrate, may, for reasons to be recorded by him, stop the proceedings at any stage
without pronouncing any
judgment and such stoppage of proceedings is made after the evidence of the principal witnesses has been recorded
pronounce a judgment of
acquittal, and In any other case, release the accused and such release shall have the effect of discharge.
In all the cases now before us, the Magistrate could have very well resorted to this section But instead he has acquitted
the accused under S.
255(1), Crl. P. C. and it is this acquittal which has been challenged by the State in these appeals on the ground that the
Magistrate cannot acquit
the accused under S. 255(1), Crl. P. C. when he has not taken the evidence referred to in S. 254, Crl. P. C.
6. We shall also now examine the provisions relating to the trial of warrant cases instituted on a police report. We might
note here that the cases
now before us are summons cases but in order to answer the question No, 2, referred to us in the reference it is
necessary to examine the position
regarding the trial of warrant cases instituted on a police report, for, those provisions also help to throw light on the first
question which has been
referred to us and which relates to summons cases. Under S. 240 if upon consideration of the Police report and the
documents sent with it under
S. 173, and examination of the accused, if any, as the Magistrate thinks necessary and after giving the prosecution and
the accused an opportunity
of being heard. the Magistrate is of opinion that there is ground for presuming that the accused has committed an
offence tribal under Chapter 19
which such Magistrate is competent to try and which in his opinion could be adequately punished by him, he shall frame
in writing a charge against
the accused. Under S. 242, Crl. P. C. if the accused refuses to plead or does not plead or claims to be tried or the
Magistrate does not convict the