that the entire responsibility for securing the attendance of prosecution witnesses lies upon the prosecutor atone. It is
only where the prosecutor
finds himself unable to produce the prosecution witnesses through his own agency that he relies upon the agency of the
Court for securing the
attendance of the prosecution witnesses- In such an event, it is the duty of the Magistrate concerned to take all such
measures as may be found
necessary under the law to compel the attendance of the prosecution witnesses.
20. On the question as to whether Magistrate can acquit an accused at all under S. 251-A(ll),Crl. P.C. if the prosecution
failed to produce their
witnesses, a Division Bench of the Gujarat High Court observed in State of Gujarat v. Bava Bhadya 1962 2 CrI. L.J. 537
as follows-
Where a charge is framed in a warrant case on police report, if owing to the failure of the prosecution to produce their
witnesses and owing also to
the failure of the prosecution to make full endeavour to serve the summonses according to the provisions contained in
Ss. 69, 70 and 71, Crl. P.C.
1896 there is no evidence before the Magistrate, the Magistrate can acquit the accused under S. 25A(11).
21. In State of Karnataka v, Subramania Setty 1980 M.L.J. Crl.131, a Division Bench of the Karnataka High Court
referring to the decisions in
State of Mysore v. Narasimla Gowda 1964 2 Mys. L.J. 241 and the State of Mysore v. Atdul Uameed Khan, 1869 1 L.J
Mys 4 observed that
the real distinction between the two decisions is as to whether there was remissness and want of diligence on the part
of the prosecuting agency in
producing the witnesses before the Court and therefore, the principle laid down in Abdul Hameed Khan''s case 1980 M
LJ. (Crl) 138 applied to
the facts of the case with which the Division Bench was concerned. We may note here that in Atdul Uameed Khan''s
case 1869 1 Mys L.J 4, it
was found on the facts that the prosecution was not at all diligent as the non-bailable warrants issued to the witnesses
had neither been served nor
returned to the Court by the concerned police and it was therefore held that where the prosecution was not diligent In
producing its witnesses and
had failed to serve the bailable warrants on the witnesses and return the same the Magistrate would be justified in
refusing to grant an adjournment
and to proceed to acquit the accused on the material on record. We may note here that in State of Kirnataka v.
Subramani Setty 1980 M.L.J.
(Crl) 138 the Division Bench was dealing with a summons case instituted on a police report.
22. After carefully considering all the aforesaid decisions and the views expressed therein, we are of the view that if the
prosecution had made an
application for the issue of summons to its witnesses either under S. 242(2) or 254(2) of the Crl. P.C. it is the duty of the
Court to issue summons