Debnath, placing her as a suspect in column no.12.
5. The aforesaid charge sheet has been perused. Upon perusal
thereof, I am unable to agree with the conclusion of the IO that
Ms. Mili Debnath should not be summoned to face trial in this
case because she had provided her account number to her
husband (accused no.4, Sh. Prosanta Mandal), who had in turn
provided it to the accused no.1, Sh. Sandip Kumar; because she
had no direct contact with the accused no.1, Sh. Sandip Kumar
and because upon withdrawal of the part amount of Rs.15,000/
(out of Rs.25,200/ ), she had immediately given the said
amount to her husband (accused no.4, Sh. Prosanta Mandal).
In my view, the fact that Ms. Mili Debnath had accepted
Rs.25,200/ in her bank account without any protest and also
allowed part of it viz. Rs.10,000/ - to be apportioned towards a
loan is indicative of the position that Ms. Mili Debnath was
equally complicit in the offences, alleged to have been
committed in this case. Also, in my view, if Ms. Mili Debnath
is let off, equity will get created in favour of the other accused,
who also did not have any direct contact with the accused no.1,
Sh. Sandip Kumar and had provided their bank accounts
through accused like Sh. Kaushik Sinha Roy and Sh. Vishnu
Prasad Tiwari. Accordingly, on the basis of all the
charge sheets filed till date, the cognizance of the subject
offences is taken qua the accused, Ms. Mili Debnath also. Let
the said accused be summoned through the IO, ACP Naresh
Kumar, for the next date.
6. List for hearing of arguments on charge, on 07.03.2024.”
8. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner contends that
the petitioner has been falsely implicated in the present case, and that
the order dated 08.02.2024 passed by the learned Special Judge is
contrary to the settled principles of law. It is further submitted that the
learned Special Judge erred in making observations against the
petitioner by holding that the acceptance of ₹25,200/- in her bank
account without protest, and permitting adjustment of ₹10,000/-
towards a prior loan, was indicative of her complicity in the alleged
CRL. M.C. 417/2025 Page 5 of 12