12. High Court of M.P. Bench At Indore
MCRC No.26515/2018
Ranjan vs. The State of M.P.
&
MCRC Nos.46229/2018
Sandeep vs. The State of M.P.
3 250
Dihydroxy Codeinone, (commonly
Milligrammes
known as Oxy-codone and
Dihydroxycodeinone), its salts
(such as Eucodal Boncodal
Dinarcon Hydrolaudin, Nucodan,
Percodan, Scophedal, Tebodol and
the like), it esters and the salts of its
ester and preparation, admixture,
extracts or other substances
containing any of those drugs
4 320
Dihydrocodeinone (commonly
Milligrammes
known as Hydrocodone), its salts
(such as Dicodide, Codinovo,
diconone, Hycedan, Multacodin,
Nyodide, Ydroced and the like) and
its esters and salts of its ester, and
preparation, admxture, extracts or
other substances containing any of
these drugs
5 Two
i-phenethyl-4-N – propionylanilino-
transdermal
piperidine (the international-non-
patches one
propreietary name of which is
each of 12.5
Fentanyl) and its salts and
microgram
preparations, admixture, extracts or
per hour and
other substances containing any of
25 microgram
these drugs.
per hour
Provided that the Controller of Drugs or any other officer
authorised in this behalf by him may be special order authorise,
in Form 3B, any such practitioner to possess the aforesaid
drugs in quantity larger then the specified in the above Table.
Provided further that such authorisation may be granted
or renewed, for a period not exceeding three years at a time.
Explanation.- The expression “for use in his practice” covers
only the actual direct administration of the drugs to a patient
under the care of the registered medical practitioner in
accordance with established medical standards and practices
(4) For renewal of the authorisation referred to in the second
proviso to sub-rule (3), application shall be made to the
Controller of Drugs atleast thirty days before the expiry of the
previous authorisation.
(5) (a) The Controller of Drugs may, be order, prohibit any
registered medical practitioner from possessing four use in his
practice under sub-rule(3) any essential narcotic drug, where
such practitioner